Performance tuning documentation (#872)
scylladb/scylla-operator: docs/source/performance.md

# Performance tuning

> 1.6 Scylla Operator adds a new experimental feature allowing users to optimize Kubernetes nodes

Author: done

## Node tuning

From 1.6 a new CRD called NodeConfig is available which allows users to target Nodes which should be tuned.  
Nodes matching the provided placement conditions will be subject for tuning.

Below example NodeConfig tunes nodes having `scylla.scylladb.com/node-type=scylla` label:
```
apiVersion: scylla.scylladb.com/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
metadata:
 name: cluster
spec:
 placement:
   nodeSelector:
     scylla.scylladb.com/node-type: scylla
```
For more details about new CRD use:
```
kubectl explain nodeconfigs.scylla.scylladb.com/v1alpha1
```

Tuning consists of two separate optimizations: common tuning of node, and tuning based on Scylla Pods and their resource assignment.

> First optimization is executed when tuning Pod lands on Node. Second one is executed when Scylla Pod lands on the same Node.  

Reviewer: not a fan of those long references (first, second) - would it be better to replace them with "node tuning" and "pod tuining?

Author: done

> Tuning Pods are created in special namespace called `scylla-operator-node-tuning`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuning resources are created in special namespace called `scylla-operator-node-tuning`
```

Author: done

> Only Scylla Pods having Guaranteed Quality of Service class are tuned, so make sure your ScyllaCluster meets all necessary conditions.

Reviewer: The tuning is applied only to pods with *guaranted* QoS. Please double check you ScyllaCluster resource specifications.

Author: done

## Kubernetes tuning

By default, the kubelet uses the CFS quota to enforce pod CPU limits.  
When the node runs many CPU-bound pods, the workload can move around different CPU cores depending on whether the pod 
is throttled and which CPU cores are available.
However, kubelet may be configured to assign CPUs exclusively, by setting the CPU manager policy to static.

> Consult your Kubernetes provider how to set it up, because it's configurable on kubelet startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up kubelet configuration is provider specific. Please check the docs for your distribution or talk to your provider.
```

Author: done

Pods which receive a Guaranteed Quality of Service class can take advantage of this option. 
As Guaranteed pods whose containers fit the requirements for being statically assigned are scheduled to the node, 
CPUs are removed from the shared pool and placed in the cpuset for the container.

In our case there are two requirements each ScyllaCluster must fulfill in order to receive a Guaranteed QoS class:
* resource request and limits must be equal or only limits have to be provided
* agentResources must be provided and their requests and limits must be equal, or only limits have to be provided

An example of such a ScyllaCluster which receives a Guaranteed QoS class is below:

```
apiVersion: scylla.scylladb.com/v1
kind: ScyllaCluster
metadata:
  name: guaranteed-cluster
  namespace: scylla
spec:
  version: 4.5.1
  agentVersion: 2.5.2
  datacenter:
    name: us-east-1
    racks:
    - name: us-east-1a
      members: 3
      storage:
        capacity: 500Gi
      agentResources:
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1G
      resources:

>         limits:

Reviewer: maybe it would be good to set request explicitly so it's seen they are the same

Author: done

# Performance tuning

Scylla Operator 1.6 introduces a new experimental feature allowing users to optimize Kubernetes nodes.

## Node tuning

> From 1.6 a new CRD called NodeConfig is available which allows users to target Nodes which should be tuned.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from Operator 1.6, a new CRD called NodeConfig is available, allowing users to target Nodes that should be tuned.
```

Author: done

> Nodes matching the provided placement conditions will be subject for tuning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nodes matching the provided placement conditions will be subject to tuning.
```

Author: done

Below example NodeConfig tunes nodes having `scylla.scylladb.com/node-type=scylla` label:
```
apiVersion: scylla.scylladb.com/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
metadata:
 name: cluster
spec:
 placement:
   nodeSelector:
     scylla.scylladb.com/node-type: scylla
```
For more details about new CRD use:
```
kubectl explain nodeconfigs.scylla.scylladb.com/v1alpha1
```

> Tuning consists of two separate optimizations: common tuning of node, and tuning based on Scylla Pods and their resource assignment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tuning consists of two separate optimizations: common node tuning, and tuning based on Scylla Pods and their resource assignment.
```

Node tuning is executed when tuning Pod lands on Node. Pod tuning is executed when Scylla Pod lands on the same Node.  

> Tuning resources are created in special namespace called `scylla-operator-node-tuning`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tuning resources are created in a special namespace called `scylla-operator-node-tuning`
```

Author: done

The tuning is applied only to pods with `Guaranteed` QoS class. Please double check your ScyllaCluster resource specification 
to see if it meets all conditions. 

## Kubernetes tuning

By default, the kubelet uses the CFS quota to enforce pod CPU limits.  
When the node runs many CPU-bound pods, the workload can move around different CPU cores depending on whether the pod 
is throttled and which CPU cores are available.
However, kubelet may be configured to assign CPUs exclusively, by setting the CPU manager policy to static.

Setting up kubelet configuration is provider specific. Please check the docs for your distribution or talk to your
provider.

Pods which receive a Guaranteed Quality of Service class can take advantage of this option. 
As Guaranteed pods whose containers fit the requirements for being statically assigned are scheduled to the node, 
CPUs are removed from the shared pool and placed in the cpuset for the container.

> In our case there are two requirements each ScyllaCluster must fulfill in order to receive a Guaranteed QoS class:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our case there are two requirements each ScyllaCluster must fulfill to to receive a Guaranteed QoS class:
```

Author: done

* resource request and limits must be equal or only limits have to be provided
* agentResources must be provided and their requests and limits must be equal, or only limits have to be provided

> An example of such a ScyllaCluster which receives a Guaranteed QoS class is below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of such a ScyllaCluster that receives a Guaranteed QoS class is below:
```

Author: done

# Performance tuning

Scylla Operator 1.6 introduces a new experimental feature allowing users to optimize Kubernetes nodes.

## Node tuning

Starting from Operator 1.6, a new CRD called NodeConfig is available, allowing users to target Nodes which should be tuned.
When a Node is supposed to be optimized, the Scylla Operator creates a DaemonSet covering these Nodes.
Nodes matching the provided placement conditions will be subject to tuning.

Below example NodeConfig tunes nodes having `scylla.scylladb.com/node-type=scylla` label:
```
apiVersion: scylla.scylladb.com/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
metadata:
 name: cluster
spec:
 placement:
   nodeSelector:
     scylla.scylladb.com/node-type: scylla
```
For more details about new CRD use:
```
kubectl explain nodeconfigs.scylla.scylladb.com/v1alpha1
```

For all optimizations we use a Python script available in the Scylla image called perftune. 

> Perftune - contains performance optimization - it’s able to tune the kernel, network and disk devices, spread IRQs across CPUs and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perftune executes the performance optimizations like tuning the kernel, network and disk devices, spreading IRQs across CPUs and more.
```

Tuning consists of two separate optimizations: common node tuning, and tuning based on Scylla Pods and their resource assignment.

> Node tuning is executed when tuning Pod lands on Node. Pod tuning is executed when Scylla Pod lands on the same Node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node tuning is executed immediately. Pod tuning is executed when Scylla Pod lands on the same Node.
```

> Scylla does not like sharing, it works most efficiently when it’s not interrupted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scylla works most efficiently when it's pinned to a CPU and not interrupted. 
```

and this requires CPU shares.  

On K8s we always have at least a couple of processes running on the node: kubelet, kubernetes provider applications, daemons etc. 
These processes require CPU shares, so we cannot dedicate entire node processing power to Scylla, we need to leave space for others.  
We take advantage of it, and we pin IRQs to CPUs not used by any Scylla Pods exclusively.

Tuning resources are created in a special namespace called `scylla-operator-node-tuning`.

The tuning is applied only to pods with `Guaranteed` QoS class. Please double check your ScyllaCluster resource specification
to see if it meets all conditions.

## Kubernetes tuning

By default, the kubelet uses the CFS quota to enforce pod CPU limits.  
When the node runs many CPU-bound pods, the workload can move around different CPU cores depending on whether the pod 
is throttled and which CPU cores are available.
However, kubelet may be configured to assign CPUs exclusively, by setting the CPU manager policy to static.

Setting up kubelet configuration is provider specific. Please check the docs for your distribution or talk to your
provider.

> Pods which receive a Guaranteed Quality of Service class can take advantage of this option. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only pods within the [Guaranteed QoS class](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/quality-service-pod/#create-a-pod-that-gets-assigned-a-qos-class-of-guaranteed) can take advantage of this option. 
```

> As Guaranteed pods whose containers fit the requirements for being statically assigned are scheduled to the node, 
> CPUs are removed from the shared pool and placed in the cpuset for the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When such pods land on a Node, kubelet will pin them to specific CPUs.
```

> In our case there are two requirements each ScyllaCluster must fulfill to receive a Guaranteed QoS class:

Reviewer: would it be better to adjust the working to match https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/quality-service-pod/#create-a-pod-that-gets-assigned-a-qos-class-of-guaranteed ?

Author: I would like to leave explicit mention about agentResources, because users are not aware of it
